you may be enjoying the warmer weather
but are your eyes loving it itchy watery
red swollen eyes are a sure sign of one
thing in its springtime look for the 22
million people who suffer from these
allergy symptoms there is hope
dr. Kimberly Friedman and optometric
physician is here to show you how you
can relieve those irritating eye
allergies good morning good morning nice
madami glad you're here tell us what it
causes eye allergies I can all incense
right now evil a look ingested because I
have the nasal allergies from allergy
season what are the eye allergies
exactly right well the eye allergies and
the nasal allergies the coughing the
congestion they basically all work from
the same process essentially the body is
exposed to some type of allergen this
type of year is usually pollen from the
trees and the grasses that are blooming
and our body could have over reacts to
that allergenic senses that it's in some
type of danger and sends a flood of
immune system cells to fight that and
that overreaction causes all of our
allergy symptoms can you have allergies
without the nasal congestion or can you
have nasal congestion without the eye
allergies absolutely you can get either
just eyes the combination of eyes with
the nasal congestion or just the nasal
congestion so you're gonna have one or
the other right but for people who wear
glasses they can obviously take the
glasses off and other eyes or whatever
but is it worse for if you're say for
the many people watching us now there
wear contacts right it can be a little
worse for two reasons whatever that
allergen is can become embedded in the
contact lens and then you become kind of
doubly exposed to the initial exposure
and then the repeated exposure on the
contact lens the second reason why it
gets a little worse is that the eyelid
is very irritated and so you're rubbing
the eyelid against this contact lens in
the eye so the symptoms are a little
worse okay what's the treatment that you
can show some of our viewers well
there's different levels of treatment if
you have the full symptoms with the
congestion the sneezing the irritation
very often you'll use oral medications
but actually for the eye the oral
medications can make the symptoms a
little worse baby boom right it dries
out the eyes a little bit and then the
non-prescription drops cause a rebound
effect where actually when the drop
wears off the eyes rebound back redder
and more irritated than you started we
show you our viewers now some of the
ways that you
can relieve your eyes from allergies and
some of them seem to make sense
avoid morning walks early morning hours
right anything in the early morning the
pollen counts higher so you're going to
wait till the midday when the pilot sort
of burns off with the Sun right right
use an air purifier does that really
work in terms of removing the pollen in
the air the air purifiers are the better
quality filters and your heating and air
conditioning system can help remove some
of the allergens you talked about eye
drops and oral medications but you have
to be careful which ones you which ones
you buy right generally the prescription
medications have a longer acting of fact
and don't have that rebound effect so
very often the prescription medications
are the way to go because they're
specific to the condition right exactly
all right one thing that you talked
about is run the air conditioner which
that we've heard a lot but in this time
with her our energy bills going up
through the roof is that still a good
idea to consider right it's a delicate
balancing act because basically you want
to try to avoid the allergen as much as
possible although sometimes that's
easier said than done
the air conditioner can help but you're
probably still going to be exposed at
some level and that's when we need to
turn to the medications don't rub your
eyes even though it feels good to do so
that causes more histamine to be
released by those immune cells and
causes the reaction to actually be worse
so keep your hands away because when
you're rubbing your eye you're actually
releasing what the right the white blood
cells that come to fight the allergen
release more of those chemicals that
start the whole red itchy watery eyes
syndrome when you rub them so you have
to keep those hands away and keep that
those cells from accumulating and
causing the histamine release now the
cold compress did can you wear those
should you use those in the morning or
in the evening whenever it feels right
to you the cold compresses help relieve
the symptoms just like the allergy drops
do and you can do that on an as-needed
basis okay contact an eye care
professional which seems odd because you
may be one of the people that don't have
don't wear glasses don't wear contacts
but you still have the eye allergies
right there are a lot of different
prescription eye allergy drops and they
work different ways so an optometric
physician can evaluate which one is best
for you and will give you the best
long-lasting relief these are products
you bought at this store I mean most of
them are you would buy anywhere
are these a good idea to consider or
would you again suggest that people go
to get a prescription medication the
over-the-counter medications are great
for short-term relief although if you
read the packaging label they all say
that you should only use them
episodically for short term maybe only a
day or two if you have the chronic
long-term allergies you really need to
go with the prescription medication and
after this rainfall that we've had does
that the old wives tale is heavy rain
washes away the pollen true enough
well it might wash away the pollen
temporarily but as soon as those blooms
start again after the rainfall you're
going to start being very uncomfortable
again so look for it to be a bad week
this week what do you think we'll see a
break hopefully we'll see a break
sometime towards the end of spring
beginning of summer but we have a long
season ahead of us well thanks for that
final thought dr. Jeffrey want to thanks
so much for joining us with these
important tips as always thank you